search: add dev docs for code monitoring (#16718)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/background-information/codemonitoring/index.md

actions.

## Glossary
| term         | description                                                          | example                             |
|:-------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| code monitor | A code monitor is a group of 1 trigger and possibly multiple actions |                                     |
| trigger      | A trigger defines a condition which is checked regularly.            | New results for a diff/commit query |
| event        | If a condition evaluates to `true` we call this an event.            | New results found                   |
| action       | Events trigger actions.                                              | Send email                          |

## Starting up your environment

Code monitoring is an enterprise functionality. To run it locally you need to start Sourcegraph as enterprise service:

```bash
<sourcegraph root>/enterprise/dev/start.sh
```

Code monitoring is still a prototype which means you have to enable it in the
settings to be visible in the UI. Open your local instance of Sourcegraph and go
to `settings > User account > settings`.

```json

> {
> "experimentalFeatures": {
>   "codeMonitoring": true
>   }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{
  "experimentalFeatures": {
    "codeMonitoring": true
  }
}
```

```

## Database layout

| Table           | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
|:----------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | cm_monitors     | Holds meta data of a code monitor.                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| cm_monitors     | Holds metadata of a code monitor.                                                                                                                            |
```

| cm_queries      | Contains data for each (trigger) query.                                                                                                                       |
| cm_emails       | Contains data for each (action) email.                                                                                                                        |
| cm_recipients   | Each email action can have multiple recipients. Each recipient can either be a user or an organization. Each row in this table corresponds to one reciepient. |
| cm_trigger_jobs | Contains jobs (past, present, future) to run triggers. Trigger jobs are linked to their triggers via a foreign key.                                           |
| cm_actions_jobs | Contains jobs (past, present, future) to run actions. Actions jobs are linked to their action and to the event that triggered them  via foreign keys.         |

Each type of trigger or type of action is represented by its own table in the
database; queries are represented by `cm_queries`, and emails are represented by

> `cm_emails` and `cm_recipients`. The job tables (`cm_trigger_jobs` and `
> cm_action_jobs`) on the other hand contain the jobs for all types of triggers

Reviewer: Syntax highlighting was tripping up here due to the line break :)
```suggestion
`cm_emails` and `cm_recipients`. The job tables (`cm_trigger_jobs` and
`cm_action_jobs`) on the other hand contain the jobs for all types of triggers
```

and actions. 

For example: Each type of action is represented by a separate nullable column in
`cm_action_jobs`. The dequeue worker reads a record and dispatches based on
which of the columns is filled. The table below shows `cm_action_jobs`with two
jobs enqueued, one for sending emails (id=1) and one for posting to a webhook
(id=2). The details for each action are contained in the records linked to with
the foreign keys in columns `email` and `webhook`.

`cm_action_jobs`

| id | email | webhook | state  |
|:---|:------|:--------|:-------|
| 1  | 1     | null    | queued |
| 2  | null  | 1       | queued |

For more details, see
[schema.md](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/main/internal/db/schema.md).

## Life of a code monitor

Let's follow the life of a code monitor with a query as a trigger and 1 email
action.

1. After you have created a code monitor, the following tables are filled:
    1. cm_monitors (1 entry)
    2. cm_queries (1 entry)
    3. cm_actions (at least 1 entry)
    4. cm_recipients (at least 1 entry)

> 3. Enqueue trigger: Periodically, a background job enqueues queries, IE for each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enqueue trigger: Periodically, a background job enqueues queries, i.e. for each
```
